# Conversion Program
#### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>
#### Description: For my project I made a program whereby users can convert units from American measurements to metric measurements and vice versa.
**Project.py** -- The main file of my project contains the main function, along with 3 other functions.
* main() -- Main begins by starting an infinite loop. It tries to get input from the user by calling the prompt() function. If the user's input is 'help' then a series of messages will be printed to the terminal which explain optimal usage and give an example. Here, if the user types the words 'SYMBOLS', in upper or lower case, using the tabulate function from the library 'tabulate', the dictionary of supported units will be printed from the global variable UNITS. If the user instead types 'EXIT', in upper or lower case, the prompt() function will be called again to get user input. If the user enters input which is not 'help', main will call the parse() function taking in the user's input as an argument. If there are no errors raised from parse() then main will break out of the while loop and print the return value of calling the conversion() function using the return value of parse() as input. The program then ends.

* prompt() -- Prompt begins by printing a welcome message and asking a question. If the user knows how to use the program, the user can enter what they wish to convert. If not, the user can type 'help' to receive the help message. Prompt() returns the input the user entered.

* parse() -- Parse takes one parameter which is a string of text. Parse first converts the string to lower case and then using regular expressions tries to match the pattern to the string. The pattern searches starting at the beginning of the string for three match groups. The first match group is one or more numbers, followed by maybe a period, maybe some more numbers, and maybe a comma. Next there should be a space character. The second match group is 1 or more word characters. Next is a space character. Next is the word 'to' which is not captured in a match group. The final match group is 1 or more word characters. Next parse searches through the global variable UNITS which is a dictionary of lists. It goes through each dictionary key and checks to see if match groups 2 and 3 are both in the list of values for each key. If both match groups 2 and 3 are in a list of values for a key, parse returns a dictionary in the format of {key: [match group 1, match group 2, match group 3]}. The key should be one of the following: temperature, weight, length, volume, speed, currency. If match groups 2 and 3 are not both in the list of values for a particular key, then a ValueError is raised. In this case, the except statement in main will cause a message to be printed about proper format, remind the user about the help message, and reprompt the user for input. If the string passed to parse does not match the pattern, a ValueError is raised, the messages are printed, and the user is reprompted for input.

* conversion() -- Conversion takes one parameter and expects a dictionary with a key and a list of values. Conversion first gets the key of the dictionary and assigns it to the variable 'key'. Then conversion will assign the value at index 0 to 'quantity', the value at index 1 to 'before' and the value at index 2 to 'after'. Conversion then checks the key and, using the convert module from convert.py, converts the 'quantity' from 'before' unit to 'after' unit and returns a string for main to print. if the key is equal to 'currency' then conversion will use the requests module to query "https://v6.exchangerate-api.com/v6/6488df943648dba6e9424b62/pair/" adding to the end 'before/after/quantity' which should be a three letter currency code/three letter currency code/ and amount. The data is parsed by json() and then conversion returns a string.

**Convert.py** -- Convert.py is a file that I wrote which has 5 functions: temperature, weight, volume, length, and speed. Each function is almost the same. They each take three parameters I called 'n', 's', and 't' where 'n' is a number, and 's' and 't' are strings corresponding to units of measurement in each function. Each function will compare 's' and 't' and where 's' and 't' match certain units, the function will return a calculation of 'n' that converts 's' to 't'.
* temperature() -- Available units are celsius(c), fahrenheit(f), and kelvin(k). Returns a float.
* weight() -- Available units are pound(lb), kilogram(kg), gram(g), miligram(mg), ounce(oz), and stone(st). Returns a float, rounded to a certain number of decimal points when necessary.
* volume() -- Available units are: gallon (gal), quart (qt), pint (pt), cup (cup), fluid ounce (floz), liter (l), and milliliter (ml). All non metric units are according to USA customary measuring standards. Returns a float, rounded to a certain number of decimal points when necessary.
* length() -- Available units include inches(in), feet(ft), yards(yd), miles(mi), centimeters(cm), meters(m), and kilometers(km). Returns a float, rounded to a certain number of decimal points when necessary.
* speed() -- Available units are miles per hour(mph), kilometers per hour (kmh), and meters per second (ms). Returns a float, rounded to a certain number of decimal points when necessary.

